if you get a hold of two magnets and you
push them you can feel this pushing
between them turn around the other way
and and they slam together now what is
it the feeling between those two magnets
what do you mean what's the feeling
between the two magnets something there
isn't there I mean that the sensation is
that there's something there when you
push these two magnets together listen
to my question what is the meaning when
you say that there's that there's a
feeling of course you feel it now what
do you want to know what I want to know
is what's going
on between these two bits these two bits
of metal repel each other and well then
what does that but what does that mean
or why are they doing that or how are
they doing
it uh you're ask I must say I think
that's a perfectly reasonable question
of course it's a reason it's an
excellent question
okay uh but the problem that you're
asking you see when you ask why
something
happens
how does a person answer why something
happens for
example Aunt Minnie is in a hospital why
because she slipped she went out and she
slipped on the ice and broke her hip
that satisfies it people it satisfies
but it wouldn't satisfy someone who came
from another planet knew nothing about
things you first you understand why when
you break your hip do you go to the
hospital how do you get to the hospital
with the when the hip is broken well
because her husband seeing that she had
the hip was broken called the hospital
up and sent somebody to get her all that
is understood by people now when you
explain a
why you have to be in some framework
that you allow something to be true
otherwise you're perpetually asking why
why did the husband call up the hospital
because husband is interested in his
wife's welfare not always some husbands
aren't interested in their wi we when
they're drunk and they're angry and so
you begin to get a very interesting
understanding of the world and all its
complications in order to to if you try
to follow anything up you go deeper and
deeper in various directions if for
example you could go all why did she
slip on the ice well ice is slippery
everybody knows that no problem but you
ask why is ice
slippery that's kind of curious ice is
extremely slippery it's very
interesting you say how does it work you
could you see so you could either say
I'm satisfied that you've answer me ice
is slippery that explains it or you
could go on and say why is ice
slippery and then you're involved with
something because there aren't many
things as slippery as ice it's very hard
to get greasy stuff but that's sort of
wet and slimy but a solid that's so
slippery because it is in the case of
ice that when you stand on it they say
momentarily the pressure melts the ice a
little bit so you got a sort of
instantaneous water surface on which
you're slipping
why on ice and not on other things
because ice expands when it water
expands when it freezes so the pressure
tries to undo the expansion and melts it
is capable of melting it but other
substances contract when they're
freezing and when you push them they're
just as satisfied to be
solid why does water expand when it
freezes and other substance don't expand
when they freeze all right I'm I'm not
answering your question but I'm telling
you how difficult a why question is you
have to know what it is that you're
permitted to understand and allow to be
understood and known and what it is
you're not you'll notice in this example
that the more I ask why it gets
interesting after that's my idea that
the deeper a thing is the more
interesting in it and
uh we could even go further and say why
did she fall down when she slipped that
has to do with gravity involves in all
the planets and everything else never
mind it goes on and on now when you ask
for example why two mag
repel there are many different levels it
depends on whether you're a student of
physics or an ordinary person that
doesn't know anything or not if you're
somebody who doesn't know anything at
all about all I can say is that there
there's a magnetic force that makes them
repel and that you're feeling that
Force you say but that's very strange
because I don't feel kind of forc like
that in other circumstances when you
turn them the other way they attract
there's a very analogous Force
electrical force which is the same kind
of a question and you say that's also
very weird but you're not at all
disturbed by the fact that when you put
your hand on the chair it pushes you
back but we found out by looking at it
that that's the same Force as a matter
of fact the electrical force not
magnetic exactly in that case but it's
the same electrical repulsions that are
involved in keeping your finger away
from the chair because everything's made
out of it's electrical forces in minor
in microscopic details there's other
forces involved but this it's connected
to electrical forces it turns out that
the magnetic and the electric force
which I wish to explain these things
this this repulsion in the first place
is what ultimately is the deeper thing
that we have to start we can start with
to explain many other things that looked
like they were everybody would just
accept them you know you can't put your
hand through the chair that's taken for
granted but that you can't put your hand
through the chair when look that more
closely why it involves these same
repulsive forces that appear in magnets
the situation you then have to explain
is why and magnets it goes over a bigger
distance than an ordinarily and there it
has to do with the fact that in Iron all
the electrons are spinning in the same
direction they all get lined up and they
magnify the effect of the force until
it's large enough at a distance that you
can feel it but it's a force which is
present all the time and very common and
is in a basic force of almost I mean I
can go a little further back if I were
more technical but in an early level I
just have to tell you that's going to be
one of the things things you'll just
have to take as an element in the world
the existence of magnetic repulsion or
electrical electrical attraction
magnetic attraction I can't explain that
attraction in terms of anything else
that's familiar to you for example if we
said the magnets attract like as if they
were connected by rubber bands I would
be cheating you because they're not
connected by rubber bands I shouldn't be
in trouble you'd soon ask me about the
nature of the bands and secondly if you
were curious enough you'd ask me why
rubber bands tend to pull back together
again and I would end up explaining that
in terms of electrical forces which are
the very things that I'm trying to use
the rubber bands to explain so I have
cheated very badly you
see so I'm not going to be able to give
you an answer to why magnets attract
each other except to tell you that they
do and to tell you that that's one of
the elements in the world of different
kinds of forces there are electrical
forces magnetic forces gravitational
forces and others and those are some of
the parts if you were a student you'd go
fur I could go further I could tell you
that the magnetic forces are related to
the electrical forces very
intimately that our relationship between
the gravity forces and electrical forces
remains
unknown and so on but I really can't do
a good job any job of explaining
magnetic force in terms of something
else that you're more familiar with
because I don't understand it in terms
of anything else that you're more
familiar
anyway